---
layout: post
title: Homework 1
category: Homework
author: Guo-Hua Wang
tags: [homework]
---

### Q1

Consider the set which satisfied the below constrains:

$$
1-x_1^2-x_2^2\geq 0, 1-x_1-x_2\geq 0, x_2\geq 0
$$

For the next points, make sure which points are satisfied. If it satisfied, figure out it is located in the boundary of constrains or the  interior of the constrains.

$$
x_a = (\frac12, \frac12)^T,x_b=(1,1)^T,x_c=(-1,0)^T,x_d=(\frac13,\frac13)^T,x_e=(\frac1{\sqrt 2}, \frac1{\sqrt 2})^T
$$

### answer

For $$x_a$$:

$$
1-x_1^2-x_2^2=\frac12\geq 0, 1-x_1-x_2=0,x_2=\frac12\gt 0
$$

So $$x_a$$ satisfies the constrains and it located at the boundary of the activate set.

For $$x_b$$:

$$
1-x_1^2-x_2^2=-1<0
$$

So $$x_b$$ does not satisfy the constrains.

For $$x_c$$:

$$
1-x_1^2-x_2^2=0,1-x_1-x_2=2>0,x_2=0
$$

So $$x_c$$ satisfies the constrains and it located at the boundary of the activate set.

For $$x_d$$:

$$
1-x_1^2-x_2^2=\frac79,1-x_1-x_2=\frac13>0,x_2=\frac13
$$

So $$x_d$$ satisfies the constrains and it located in the interior of the activate set.

For $$x_e$$:

$$
1-x_1^2-x_2^2=0,1-x_1-x_2=1-\sqrt 2<0
$$

So $$x_e$$ does not satisfy the constrains.

### Q2

Try to proof: for any vectors $$x,y\in R^n$$, s.t. $$\vert\|x\|-\|y\|\vert\leq\|x-y\|$$

### answer

For any vectors $$x,y\in R^n$$:

$$
\begin{align}
(\|x\|-\|y\|)^2 &=x^Tx+y^Ty-2\|x\|\|y\|\\
&\leq x^Tx+y^Ty-2x^Ty\\
&=(x-y)^2
\end{align}
$$

### Q3

Define $$f(x)=(a^Tx)(b^Tx)$$ where $$a,b,x\in R^n$$. Compute its first-order derivative and second-order derivative.

### answer

$$
\frac{\partial f(x)}{\partial x}=(a^Tx)\frac{\partial b^Tx}{\partial x}+\frac{\partial a^Tx}{\partial x}(b^Tx)=(a^Tx)b+a(b^Tx)=(ab^T+ba^T)x
$$

$$
\frac{\partial^2 f(x)}{\partial x^2}=\frac{\partial (ab^T+ba^T)x}{\partial x}=ab^T+ba^T
$$

### Q4

Define $$C\subset R^n$$ is a convex set, $$p$$ is a positive number. Proof $$S$$ is a convex set in $$R^n$$:

$$
S=\{x:x\in R^n, x=Ay, y \in C\}
$$

where $$A$$ is a $$n\times p$$ real matrix.

### answer

For any $$x_1,x_2 \in S$$, there are $$y1, y2\in C$$ which $$x_1=Ay_1, x_2=Ay_2$$. For any $$\lambda \in (0,1)$$:

$$
x_3=\lambda x_1+(1-\lambda x_2)=\lambda Ay_1+(1-\lambda)Ay_2=A(\lambda y_1+(1-\lambda)y_2)
$$

For C is a convex set, $$y_3=\lambda y_1+(1-\lambda)y_2 \in C$$. Then $$x_3 = Ay_3$$ and $$x_3 \in S$$. So S is a convex set.

### Q5

Define the set $$S \subset R^n$$ is a nonempty convex set. Proof: $$f:S\rightarrow R$$ is convex, if and only if the epigraph of $$f$$:

$$
epi(f)=\{(x,y):x\in S, y\geq f(x)\}\subset R^{n+1}
$$

is a convex set.

### answer

For $$f$$ is convex:

$$
\forall x_1,x_2 \in S, \lambda\in(0,1), \lambda f(x_1)+(1-\lambda)f(x_2)\geq f(\lambda x_1+(1-\lambda)x_2)
$$

next we proof $$epi(f)$$ is a convex set.

For any $$(x_1, y_1),(x_2,y_2)\in epi(f)$$ and $$\lambda \in(0,1)$$, define $$(x_3, y_3)=\lambda(x_1,y_1)+(1-\lambda)(x_2,y_2)$$. With the set $$S$$ is a convex set we get $$x_3 \in S$$. With $$f$$ is convex we get $$y_3\geq f(x_3)$$. So $$epi(f)$$ is a convex set.

If $$epi(f) $$ is a convex set, below we should proof $$f$$ is convex.

Define $$(x_1, f(x_1)), (x_2, f(x_2))$$ where $$x_1,x_2\in S$$. It's easy to find $$(x_1,f(x_1)),(x_2,f(x_2))\in epi(f)$$. Then for all $$\lambda \in (0,1)$$, define $$(x_3, y_3)=\lambda (x_1, f(x_1))+(1-\lambda)(x_2,f(x_2))$$ and $$(x_3, y_3)\in epi(f)$$. So $$x_3 \in S$$ and $$y_3 \geq f(x_3)$$ which is $$\lambda f(x_1)+(1-\lambda)f(x_2)\geq f(\lambda x_1+(1-\lambda)x_2)$$. So $$f$$ is convex.

### Q6

Define the set $$S \subset R^n$$ is a nonempty convex set. Proof for every integer $$m>2$$, if $$x^{(1)},x^{(2)},\dots,x^{(m)}\in S$$:

$$
\sum_{i=1}^{m}\alpha_i x^{(i)}\in S
$$

where $$\alpha_1+\alpha_2+\dots+\alpha_m=1(\alpha_i\geq 0, i=1,\dots,m)$$

### answer

It's easy to get when $$m=2$$ , the conclusion is right.

If $$m=k$$, the conclusion is right. Next we should proof when $$m=k+1$$, the conclusion is right.

Define $$a =\sum_i^k \alpha_i$$.

$$
\begin{align}
\sum_{i=1}^{k+1}\alpha_ix^{(i)}&=\sum_{i=1}^k \alpha_i x^{(i)}+\alpha_{k+1}x^{(k+1)}\\
&=a\sum_{i=1}^k \frac{\alpha_i}{a} x^{(i)}+\alpha_{k+1}x^{(k+1)}\\
&=ax^*+\alpha_{k+1}x^{(k+1)}\\
&=x^{**} \in S
\end{align}
$$

### Q7

Figure out if below functions are convex in their domain of definition.

1. 2-norm: $$R^n\rightarrow R_+$$
2. $$f(x_1,x_2)=x_1^2-2x_1x_2+x_2^2+x_1+x_2$$
3. $$f(x_1,x_2,x_3)=x_1x_2+2x_1^2+x_2^2+2x_3^2-6x_1x_3$$

### answer

1.

$$
\begin{align}
f(\lambda x+(1-\lambda)y)&=\sqrt{(\lambda x+(1-\lambda)y)^2}\\
&=\sqrt{\lambda^2\|x\|^2+(1-\lambda)^2\|y\|^2+2\lambda(1-\lambda)x^Ty}\\
&\leq\sqrt{\lambda^2\|x\|^2+(1-\lambda)^2\|y\|^2+2\lambda(1-\lambda)\|x\|\|y\|}\\
&=\sqrt{(\lambda \|x\|+(1-\lambda)\|y\|)^2}\\
&=\lambda \|x\|+(1-\lambda)\|y\|\\
&=\lambda f(x)+(1-\lambda)f(y)
\end{align}
$$

2.

$$
f(x_1,x_2)=\frac12x^T
\left(\begin{array}{cc}
1&-2\\
-2 & 1
\end{array}\right)
x+(1,1)x
$$

$$
\frac{\partial^2 f}{\partial x^2}=\left(
\begin{array}{cc}
1&-2\\
-2 & 1
\end{array}\right)
$$

Because $$\frac{\partial^2 f}{\partial x^2}$$ is not positive semidefinite, $$f$$ is not convex.

3.

$$
f(x_1,x_2,x_3)=\frac12x^T
\left(\begin{array}{ccc}
4&1&-6\\
1&2&0\\
-6&0&4
\end{array}\right)
x
$$

$$
\frac{\partial^2 f}{\partial x^2}=
\left(\begin{array}{ccc}
4&1&-6\\
1&2&0\\
-6&0&4
\end{array}\right)
$$

Because $$\frac{\partial^2 f}{\partial x^2}$$ is not positive semidefinite, $$f$$ is not convex.